Barbeque brisket was served to more than 100 guests at the Giant Arrow Dedication in downtown Matador on Saturday evening, October 15, 2011. With the historic jail as a backdrop, Pioneer Park was bustling with activity where David Stafford barbeque was served along with chips and a drink. Guests brought lawn chairs, and some who forgot theirs bought large flower pots and turned them over to serve as seats. Eleven chairs were set on a staging area decorated with yellow and red mums, and a sound system donated by the Chamber of Commerce—manned by Seab and Dianne Washington—filled the air with flute music. Sponsored by the Friends of the Historic Motley County Jail, the jail board also sold tickets for a 4-piece luggage set, which was won by attendee Adrianne Hamilton.

Matador Tribune, October 20, 2011
Following a welcome by County Judge Jim Meador, Deborah Sue McDonald, Executive Director of the Texas Plains Trail Region (TPTR), spoke about the mission to promote heritage tourism in rural communities. She noted that Motley County recently received a partnership grant for the Motley County Media Project. McDonald then introduced Marisue Potts, Chair of the Motley County Historical Commission, who spoke about the county's 100-year connection to Quanah Parker, citing his visits to Matador Ranch and Ballard Springs. Dr. Holle Humphries further emphasized the cultural importance of the trail, calling the arrow initiative the "largest public arts initiative in the United States." The Giant Arrow itself, donated by sculptor Charles Smith of New Home, Texas, represents the first of many arrows placed along the trail to mark historical Comanche sites.

Following the presentations, re-enactor Annalon Gilbreath of Midland, Texas, dressed as a pioneer woman and gave a stirring performance on Molly Goodnight. Mary Ann (Molly) Goodnight is credited with saving the Southern Bison Herd that now roams Caprock Canyons State Park. Sitting on a stool center stage, Gilbreath opened with a rousing song on an autoharp before delving into Molly’s life, ending with a hauntingly beautiful song without accompaniment as the sun set. Ms. Gilbreath, a talented storyteller, has performed for the National Cowboy Symposium and has developed several characters based on famous Texas women.

The event concluded with a performance by the Parker family, featuring 93-year-young Anna Tahmahkera, who sang and prayed in Comanche. She shared details about her traditional buckskin dress and her 100-year-old moccasins. Carolyn Wilson then introduced Quanah Parker’s great-granddaughter, Ardith Parker Leming, whose husband Glen demonstrated the traditional "brain tanning" process for buffalo hides and displayed handcrafted bows and arrows. Before the final blessing, Paul Davis, the adopted son of Baldwin Parker, read a poem entitled "The Spirit of Quanah Parker Lives On." Under a single light directed at the Giant Arrow and framed by the American, Texas, and Comanche flags, Glen Leming and Paul Davis conducted a cedar blessing ceremony as smoke wafted over the crowd, officially dedicated the first Giant Arrow on the Quanah Parker Trail.